### Log

- Logging refers to the act of recording during the execution of an application. Logs are records that give us information about the events in a software application. This record could be a message that is enough to understand the event that happened, it may include a timestamp, a description, and a severity level.
- We need logging for several reasons
  - Firstly, it will save a lot of time when we are troubleshooting our application at a later stage. If the program, for example, broke or something went wrong in it, then we can find the exact moment at which the error occurred in the log.
  - Secondly, it is also possible to trace who used the program with the log. If it is, say, a site, one can find out who sent the requests. Also, logs help to monitor the operation of a particular system, which makes verification and reporting a whole lot easier.

### When, What, and How

- There are several common reasons to generate logs:
  - Troubleshooting
  - Auditing
  - Profiling
  - Statistics
- What we log usually depends on the application. There's **no** need to log the start and the end of every method, their arguments, since they are easy to track. Logs are meant to cover server issues, database issues, networking issues, errors from unanticipated user inputs, states of dynamically created objects, configuration values.
- Providing contextual information in your log messages is very important as well.
- `Ex:` When authenticating a user, log the username that is inputted. Context is also important when your program runs in a concurrent environment. In such a case the thread name can be added to the log message.

### Log levels

- There are different types that correspond to the accepted logging levels: Debug, Info, Warn, Error, Fatal (from the least critical level to the most critical one).
  - **Debug** logs are used to diagnose applications. Debugging messages inform us about what the program is doing at a certain step and what it gets as a result of these actions.
  - **Info** is used to log important information about an application. It is used to log service start, service stop, configurations, assumptions.
  - **Warn** logs are considered to be the first level of application failure. They are usually applied to log repeated attempts to access a resource, missing secondary data, or switching from a primary server to a back-up server.
  - **Error** log level is used for more critical problems. These kinds of issues usually affect the result of the operation but do not terminate the program.
  - **Fatal** is the third level of application failures. It is used to indicate a much more serious error that causes the termination of the program. Such a message may say that the program totally failed and depending on the time and conditions of this failure the developers can find out how to fix the problem.

### Log Format

- To investigate a bug, we need to know when it happened, how serious it was, and who came across it. Thus, the log format generally looks like this:

```
[date time][log level][message]
```
