### Files
- Data is stored on disks under certain addresses. For a computer, such addresses are numbers. It uses them to find the corresponding information
- It's much easier for us to name our data, for example, family photo, November report, and so on. Therefore, the concept of a file was invented: in a file
- Which can store some information under a user-friendly name.
- A file is associated with a piece of data.

### File extensions
- The end of a filename informs users or programs about the file format.
- Operating systems use filename extensions to remember which program to use to open files with a certain extension.

### File metadata
- Metadata stands for "data about data": filename,  file size, creation time, the last access time, etc.
- Also, metadata consists of file attributes. Each attribute has two possible states: 
	+ set (toggled on) 
	+ cleared (toggled off). 
-  File attributes tell the file system or operating system if a file should get some special treatment
- Metadata that define file system behaviour.

### Absolute and relative paths
- In order to find a file, we need to know the path to it. 
- The path is a character set indicating the location of a file in the system.
- A path to a file that starts with a root directory is called an absolute path and serves as the file’s unique identifier
- Your program can address the working directory by using a special character . instead of the directory’s actual name
- so you can use a path like "./my_file" without specifying the whole path from a root. 