### Unix file types
- In general, a file is a container for some information. We can put almost anything in this container: a photo, a text, a link to another file, or just another container with other nested files, etc. All this data is different and therefore the files in which it's stored are of various types.
- The Unix filesystem components are:
    + **Regular files** where you usually keep your personal data such as texts, pictures, and so on.
    + **Directories**, or folders that make it easier to organize other files in the system.
    + **Named pipes**, that pass the output of one process as input to another one and have a name.
    + **Symbolic links**, which contain links to other files.
    + **Device files**, that contain data required by the operating system to interact with physical devices.
    + **Sockets**, which allow to exchange the data between processes in both directions.

### Regular Files
- Regular files are common because users usually store their data in them: documents, videos, photos, music, etc.
-  Any data in such files can be presented in two forms:
    + Textual data with some encoding, then the file will be called a **text file**
    + Any other sequences of bytes without constraints to encoding, then such a file is called a **binary file**
- **Text files** usually contain texts in plain format, tabular data, configuration files, and data formats like CSV or JSON. 
- **Binary files** often contain data such as video, audio, databases, and archives.
- The main **difference** between text and binary files is that the latter has no inherent constraints. It means they can contain any bytes sequence, and they are to be opened in an appropriate program that knows the specific file format such as Media Player, Photoshop, Office, etc. On the other hand, text files can be edited in any text editor program. Also, they must correspond to several constraints such as human-readable content, line-oriented data format, universal reading of newline sequences, and so on.

### Directory
- **Directories**, or folders, are containers for the files.
- Most file systems also allow a directory to contain other directories. It’s called a **parent** directory containing **child** directories or **subdirectories**
- Directories that have no parents are called **root** directories and serve as the base of this structure
- This hierarchy provides clear links between files and makes it a lot more convenient to search for data on a disk. We just need to know the full path to a file, that's all. To get this full path, we need a full filename, i.e. we add the parent folder to the file, and for the parent folder, we also add its parent and so on till we get to the root.
- Directory names in a full filename are usually separated by slash ```/``` or backslash ```\```

Ex:  ```root_directory/sub_directory/my_file```

### Symbolic links
- A symbolic link contains a reference to another file or directory in the form of an absolute or relative path. In Windows, you may know them as **shortcuts**
-  Let’s say you want some files to be accessed from several directories. If you **copy** this file and put its copies into each directory, each time you modify one of the copies you’ll have to go and modify **all** the others, and this feels like a waste of time. If you put **symbolic links** referencing this file into each directory, they would actually open the **original file** they are referencing.