### Packages

- A Go package is a directory in your project containing one or more Go source files, or even other nested Go packages
- The main purpose of a package is to help you organize related source files together into a single unit, making them reusable and maintainable.
- Every Go source file belongs to a package; that's why every Go file starts with a package declaration:

```go
package packagename
```

- Any variable, type, or function within the source file belongs to its declared package, and other source files within the same package `can access` it.
- Go source files that exist in the same directory **must** belong to the same package. Even though it is not required for a package to be named after its containing directory, it is a recommended convention to follow.

### Importing a package

- One of the most used built-in Go packages is fmt that provides I/O functionalities. To use this package in your code, you can import it below the package declaration as follows:

```go
package packagename

import "fmt"
```

- Upon importing the fmt package, you have access to the functions exported by the package. You can access these functions using the dot `.` operator, for example, `fmt.Println()` or `fmt.Scanf()`.
- Often, you will need to use more than one package in your program. You can import more than one package by using the following syntax:

```go
import (
    "fmt"
    "math"
    "strings"
)
```

- To avoid a compiler error, you can use a blank \_ identifier before the name of the package.

```go
import (
    "fmt"
    "math"
    _ "os"
    "strings"
)
```

- Another use of the special blank identifier is to trigger the initialization `init()` function in some packages.
- For example, when working with database drivers, you can use a blank import to trigger the `init()` function and give the package the necessary data required to work with the database:

```go
import (
    "database/sql" // imports the Go database/sql package

    _ "github.com/lib/pq" // imports the PostgreSQL sql drivers that the database/sql package requires
)
```

- Inside the `github.com/lib/pq` package, the `conn.go` file contains the `init()` function. In simple terms, this will pass the necessary data to the database/sql package in your main package so that it can work with a PostgreSQL database:

```go
func init() {
    // when initialized with the blank "_" import, init() passes the necessary data
    // to the database/sql package in your main package so that it can work with PostgreDB
    sql.Register("postgres", &Driver{})
}
```

- Another type of special import is the dot `.` import. It imports the package into the same namespace as the current package, so there is no need to use the imported package's name to access its functions.

```go
import (
    . "fmt"
    . "math"
)

func main() {
    // Outputs 5 to the console, you can use Println without fmt and Abs without math prefix
    Println(Abs(-5))
}
```

- You can also import nested packages:

```go
import "math/rand"
```

- `math` is the main package, and `rand` is the nested package. In this case, you would only be able to use the functions within the `rand` package, none of the `math` package

### Package types

- There are two types of packages in Go: **executable** and **utility**.
  - An executable package holds an executable program for Go to compile and run.
  - A utility package, in turn, is not self-executable; it just contains utility functions that can be used in an executable package. (Ex: `fmt`, `os`, `math`)
- A special executable package is the main package. To create an executable package in Go, there are two requirements:
  - The name of the package **_must_** be `main`.
  - It should contain a function called `main()`, which will be the starting point of your program.

```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Learning about packages!")
}
```

### External packages

- You can also install external packages to your project using the go get command.

```bash
$ go get github.com/fatih/color
```

- Starting from Go version `1.16`, the **Module-aware** mode is enabled by default. So if you're using Go version 1.16+ and want to install external packages, you'll need to perform the following steps:
  1. Initialize a Go Module in your project by executing the go mod init module-name command in your terminal, e.g., `go mod init example`
  2. Then execute the go get package-name command to install the external package, e.g., `go get github.com/fatih/color`
  3. Finally, execute the `go mod tidy` command to add missing and remove unused modules in your project.

### Internal packages
- Internal packages reside within the directory named internal in your project.
- The ```go``` tool recognizes this internal directory and prevents the package it contains from being imported by any package that doesn't share the same parent directory or is not a subdirectory of this parent directory.
```
.
├───calculator
│   │   calculator.go
│   │
│   └───internal
│           modulo.go
│
└───main
        main.go
```
The internal package ```example/calculator/internal``` can be imported by the code within calculator.go or any other Go source files within the example/calculator directory and its subdirectories because they share the common parent directory, example/calculator.

However, if you tried to import the example/calculator/internal package from the main package that resides in the example/main directory, you would get the following compilation error:
```go
use of internal package example/calculator/internal not allowed
```
This happens because the example/main directory and the example/calculator/internal directory do NOT share the common parent directory, example/calculator.